good morning looks like we're live all
right so uh we're going to start today
as we start all days with a brand new
project cast six we do this because the
repetition is very helpful for me in
teaching and explaining and and it's
nice so this time we're going to copy
some stuff over for expediency obviously
and we're going to progressively do more
and more of that but basically first
thing we're going to get a parser
because it was super annoying to just
mangle lots of expressions and I just
want to give it strings and whatnot so
here's what we're going to do we're
going to say a c add p and so that's our
parser and I'm just going to come and
yint that and it's just this simple
thing there and I don't think I need
this think I need that yet okay so now
remember so this is just a parser for
our expert and our expert has the most
basic struct uh it's just a tree of
strings so we can have a symbol and
that's our atoms of language and then
we're going to have a compound
expression which is a list which takes a
vck of
expert okay then we're going to just
copy in
some handy useful functions so I'll just
explain what these are this is just an
easy thing that gives me a SIM from a
string and it's just useful for inline
comparison and checking if the head of
something is a string oh yes of course
we need to be able to do um
derive debug clone partial e eek okay so
now we can do lots of things with this
this returns either the name of an atom
or the first element of a compound
expression because that's how we do
things in um symbolic languages is
basically we have this list structure
and the operation so the head of FX X
goes to
F and the head of f goes to sim so we
get basically that this uh okay then
what we wanted to do is we wanted to
write yeah we're going to need this
function this is a function that helps
in checking if a blank
matches an expression and it just has
this one caveat that if this uh
blank H we check that if it has an
argument here that we check that
whatever we're matching against matches
with the head of expert and we need to
flip that around okay easy
stuff all right yeah I want I'm going to
want these functions
too These are nice to have so these are
functions for rebuilding Expressions
given hash Maps so basically as we
Traverse the tree and look for patterns
that match we're going to be inserting
into our map um and we're going to do
that in the pattern match let's see why
is
this oh interesting I don't remember
writing Pub there but yes we do actually
need to make this a pub so that the
parer can see it too but here I think we
can just remove this I don't I don't
really know okay so now it's time to
write the pattern matcher and we did
this last time but only with one blanks
type but now the crucial thing that
we're going to be doing this time is we
are going to be introducing these two
guys so this is blank sequence and this
is blank null sequence and they match
any sequence of one or more expression
any sequence of zero or more expression
and then we can have it with names we
can have it with heads so those so this
is basically what I think is the most
important section of the pattern matcher
and unfortunately we don't have
this but I don't think that that would
be that hard to find to implement okay
so so I have a old version of this
pattern match that has blank sequence
support
um but it's super long and super messy
so we're going to rewrite it
and um we're going to see what happens
all right so cast six let's go and then
I guess we should probably get these
test
cases
um they're so messy though I don't
like no they're they're
essential all right so just see all
right we don't have match so we need to
make sure that this
works okay so now we're going to write
my
match takes
an expert takes a p type expert and it
also takes a POS which is a v of U size
so where are we in the tree in the
expression tree and then it takes a pass
map it takes
well it takes a pass map and this needs
to be mutable because we are going to be
inserting into it and then it takes a
named map
and it returns a
bulling Okay cool so now what do we need
to do well we need to match on xad and I
forget I'm just going to clone
everywhere I can and then we're going to
optimize later because that's of The
Annoying Thing okay
so first we're going to do exper Sim e
exper Sim p goes to e is equal to P
that's the simplest case we've done that
four times now three times now if that's
not burned in your
brain okay wait let's set this goes to
false so all the other ones and we want
exper list
uh
simp for list
PS what we want to say
is um so the correct Behavior here
is so we want to check if the head is
either pattern or blank because that
will capture and we also need to do
uh oh and we need to make this
actually
okay so that seems about right and then
uh else we return
false okay so we have this function up
here which I'm going to put the
rebuilding stuff elsewhere because I
like I want to look at this
function
I got water on my keyboard on my mouse
okay so
[Music]
um so I think that these can all be I
can't think of a case
where these don't all just get merged
into
so what we could do is
uh uh
uh I think that we can do this but we're
going to see else if blank Sim contains
ps0
okay so here we want to say if uh is
blank
match uh e is going to be uh X and P is
going to
be
um
is it two or
one
two so if this is a blank match then we
need to
insert and we're going to
insert that and we're going to give it X
but first actually we need to
check uh if let
sum equal to let me just this up right
now
name get pointer
to
hat
um then we need to return then we need
to give um
V equal equal
to X and I want to remember it may be
the case that we actually curse here but
I
don't think so okay so that's cool
else
and we probably need to make the
uh can't
compare okay
cool
so if we see a pattern then if we see a
pattern head then we know that there's a
name there so we get this and and we're
storing in our hashmap we're actually
storing the whole pattern object just
because I don't know it's easy it's
nice yeah
borrow
okay so now
if so this means and
uh then
POS map.
insert we can assume that there is
no or assert
um rust how to assert that a hash does
not have a
key
okay
or if we have we remove moved the
key Bott bot
bot okay so then we
insert
pass in
uh with
xer what do we call X
okay and we say
true
right I need to switch the order around
because I used to
do
this and then rebuild all we need to
well I don't I don't really care about
the those are all
details what's going on
here
okay
I mean these really need to take
pointers it's pretty ridiculous should I
just make that
change I don't care okay cool so now we
have the this is the pretty good Logic
for what needs to happen when we see a
symbol and we're trying to match it to a
list
if it's some pattern object then we do
all the pattern logic otherwise we just
return false so that's pretty simple now
we have expert list e expert
list piece and we have to now this is uh
very important to get
right
so now we have no
guarantee
about
um the length because because the blank
sequence and blank null sequence objects
these which
uh
okay oh we also need to do uh or well we
haven't recursed yet so that's
okay okay so the first thing that we
need to do
is we still need to check all of this
logic this logic all stays the same the
only the only difference being that we
don't return
false
okay so if we
are not in the else
Branch we are matching the entire x x
list X
okay but if it's not then first we need
to say let P head equal to PS1 or
zero let
e
equal okay and now we want to
call no we want to recurse so we want to
say that new P equal
p CL
um and that's going to be
zero
and remember POS always
refers to the place in the
pattern not the
exper Okay then
if
we probably have to
clone now we need to be careful about
removals
so but we still need to give it the P
map and the named
map but I think we want to try to
do but does is
that removals are going to be weird I
don't know if I need to remove like
this
okay
um
for
okay so let's say like right now we're
going to recurse because we have
FX matching with f
blank so we go into
here and we're matching the head and if
these don't match then we just need to
return
false so the head don't
match and all bets are off I
think we need to keep going okay so
then
I want to cheat a little bit because I
want to look
at exactly what I have
here okay so we're in the list L arm and
then we match on the P head we end up
just doing this so we don't actually
need to match on
this but here is where we do
this oh I think that this
is uh is that true no no because this is
sort of like the base case case this is
the base case
for when this is like a like a a list
without nesting
like like it's just a pattern object at
the
top and so even in that
case uh it does not
matter we can probably merge these two
arms
but we'll figure it
out okay so I think we have up until
here
okay so yes so we just start writing our
Loop so for I
pi and
[Music]
he's
do wait but how does Skip work with
enumerate no it
probably we skip the
head remember uh
blank
sequence and
no
seek can only
match
uh what am I trying to
[Music]
say like given
faab
matching
matching and
I'm
good
stuff okay so now what do we need to
do
for
let's see if this works what's at the
end
here
all right I'm curious if I just copy
this
in oh everything is probably named wrong
all right I'm not going to do
that
this as list stuff so
nasty nasty nasty
nasty
oh we also need the flatten sequence
function where's that
at I hope we're not relying on anything
that's
tool
okay
I I'll make a function function rebuild
and just
does
and just call SP sequences of rebuild
all
okay okay so what is it that we're doing
here we need to look at the
head
for
okay yeah
fine
uh then we need
to yeah we need to do
this well
actually yeah it's true we need to do a
p
type I probably can't Index this
though
then we can match
Pi I feel like
that's not that
great
okay I don't know what the hesitancy is
here I feel like I should just copy
stuff problem is it gets
overwhelming okay fine let's do that
match
for
no we could just add that condition in I
I kind of like that
idea
rebuild and splice we give it
pat why isn't it
format
wait let's comment this
out
okay
uh okay so what this is saying
is too big I just going to do this it's
going to get a little bit bigger
but then I'm also like a little bit out
of the
way go all the way up there my head's
cut up
okay what's up with this we got a clone
got a Bor
off
yeah
okay um if we've reached the end
of
matching
of of it the
list pattern
list
finding mappings for all all
elements then we should be able to
recreate
X
from okay so that sounds pretty
good
oh we can now just do
this
is it two
though this is B right that's going to
be
B
but now this is the
case where it
matters whether we are dealing
with
[Music]
it is nice to have that DF for this damn
because then you don't have to keep
matching okay well let's
oops
okay okay so let's is that D stuff in
here
here oh we could add the formatting
stuff too I don't know how to useful
that
is okay so what is exactly does this
do so this allows us to index into a
thing
I think we can just do
this
okay so now we should be able to be down
here and we should be able to say we
should be able to implicitly make the
assumption that these are L that this is
a
list so I should be able to go like
this um
zero let Pi blank H
equal
PS hold
on what's
up
what
mad oh yeah what
happened
wait I can't hear
you
all
right
no
oh yeah are we doing head matching yeah
we
are
for okay so what is happening
here we got this D this D thing which I
don't know if I
like okay this is guaranteed to be
there
so
if we just call this blank
t
okay
so put a thing
here
then I do want to copy all of this
code
okay there we
go
to
E uh we
just we could just do
that I don't
know
it's just
printing
s for
name wait what was that e rest
K okay I'm done for
that
okay we don't need
this
um oh
uh
um
okay yeah I I think I think that's fine
I think so what I was worried about is
if I somehow need to but sequences
handle that for me so sequences is how
we get around the idea that there can be
multiple experts
so but hold on I thought I thought of a
better way to do
this
can't I just
call
expected mutable ref
slice as
m.2 so can I just do
this okay so I think that
this go
away and here we just need to
say of list of Els is it list e of
else okay
okay so where's this P
stuff
pass okay it's equal to pa. clone and
then we
push uh we push
I
wait
yeah so then we give it PA pass map
named
map um my
match
um
there
but presumably we actually since we're
already in the pattern thing we
shouldn't have to do anything with
positions so maybe that's sort of
premature I think it might
be
for
e
okay so where are we at
here
um I guess we could actually just do uh
what does that even
mean
yeah I don't really get what it's
telling me to
do it needs to be in
the
for
no that doesn't change I thought maybe
was up
here I have no
idea
okay I guess we could see if everything
blows
up
this doesn't seem
right
um does two vet clone
it
oh okay I guess it's okay
okay
so let's just write a test case to see
if
um there yeah
oh I need to do pattern X let
see one two
three
for
h
m
for
um
did I still call it new PA two
no what's wrong with
this
can I remove
the
H
oh
all
right
beautiful that's
awesome let's see if we what happens if
we do two of
them
let's do this
why that is very nice
we are getting somewhere with this
thing to the end we get X goes to a and
Y goes to BC that's perfect that's
exactly what we
want
for
try something with
nesting
it's pretty
good D you this
this should be literally the exact same
code except we go from
zero
for
nice so this is already pretty
good now what's a case where needs to
backtrack to remove
something let's try a truste
no that works pretty
good
e
yeah so here what do we need to
do
are we supposed to return true
there I thought maybe we're supposed to
break I'm going to try to remove this
and
break
oh but we need a break out of
both okay well never
mind
okay
for
what do I have in the blank
here I
say
okay yeah we try to match the
ion
head equ go pattern else head equals
blank
oh
here all right I'm going to copy this in
let just delete a bunch of
it right no
not
I think we can
copy and it's going to
be
um interestingly we're not recursing
there I feel like we should just
recurse but fine I think that
does the exact same
thing oh I
see
right so first we want to do this we EI
pi
we're going to need a day where we go
through and we finally convert to
RC okay so we just tried to match
those and that can insert or that will
will
insert if it doesn't already right so
it'll do this logic where it does the
name map.
getet
Okay cool so now what can we do we can
do a blank a named
blank
h of
course
um do we call
is
let's do another one here where we
have a a
c b
d
now
for
okay
yeah so why is that so here we're
getting that X goes
to it takes BD but we need to
check do we do it in here
I think we
might so we need to go back to the for
Loop
yeah
okay so where are we at
here
actually should look at my t just case
it's from
here let's
see
now that one we got which is
great
H this should
go here then we get into
this
um
it is this case
right
okay
so there's a bug in
recursing I think we need the length
check
thing
CU if the pattern length is greater than
the no that's still not
true because you could have triple
blanks
oh didn't print
anything
huh you think it prints
something
e
m
I think if this fails you return false
too right again
okay this that
work I need more
bucko then let's make sure
that this is
true
it's um it's time we need we need uh we
need this
then we're going to remove
uh
for okay so
we're we're getting kind of
close Sim
want
see
um then we need to say but length t
equal or
um no then we know the the blank T and
we just need the
h
cool so all we need to say here we need
to copy
this just do it positionally I
think
to get
um
okay so let's see if that
works we're going to
have a test
case
a b c
d we're going to
have blank
seek my name blank
seek
right
cool
we need to make heads
work well it's today the day that we
actually finally get this into cast
3 all right so let's just try to do
this
zero
I think that's literally
it let's make
sure
H oh we do need else
case you want me to move it I'll move it
bro all right where should I move
it should I make it smaller here I'll
move it here thanks bro it's good
looking
out thanks
Doug yeah I feel
you how's
this I feel like this is
better
what does that
mean does that even
mean what do you mean it oh yeah I can
put it at the bottom but what do you
mean
frame
so where we at here we need an else
case
else
hm like a different scene for a cam when
it's wrapped into some kind of
outliner does that mean like have a
background cuz the I found this thing
called what is it OBS background removal
so I didn't want the background because
otherwise the background like hides the
code so I wanted that so I wanted people
to be able to read the
code
there's a video on how to do it whatever
you're asking I I'll do it I don't I
don't really
uh yeah know yeah you're right the
removal isn't great but
um here let let me show you what it
looks like otherwise
uh I got to go to
filters I turn this off the problem is
then so much of the code gets
blocked yeah I know I know I know it I
know what it looks like I watched the
vods but here it just gets so like so
much of the code is uh blocked that I
feel like it's better than
nothing I prefer it I think it's
uh maybe it's a little dis orienting
though I go back and
forth cut the ratio let's see what
settings do we have in
here even this thing it doesn't really
help see smooth
silhouette this really change
anything
uh let's
see I do have a GeForce card so that's
not the worst
idea let's see how it works can I use it
with
OBS let's
see
yeah so show up as a new camera that's
kind of
cool that's pretty good wow yeah you
might have put me on something uh
something
cool all right I'll play around with
that off stream I think but that looks
good dude you might be on to something
bro I'm losing
arms sometimes when I'm drinking coffee
coffee I just completely
disappear so let's say you wanted to
add this is pretty good dude I'm glad
you put me on to this I'm going to keep
a note on this uh
because
I yeah man because that looks way better
than what I have all right for right now
I don't want to do that CU I'm just like
right in the middle of something but
dude I appreciate it did I change this
let's set the
default
okay Kaa
yeah it's cool though because this is
open source that's why I like it like
part of the issue is that the um the
Nvidia one I feel like it's probably
just harvesting me for training data so
I'm not like super thrilled about
that um but yeah I'll try the bottom the
bottom right because I feel like usually
my terminal is more empty than the code
so this is probably a good suggestion
regardless
um okay so where we at we need to do
this this is the case where one of the p
is a list but not a I think we just want
to do
this let's try
that okay so this
is no wait but that's supposed to oh
that return
true wait hold on test case8 I wish we
had a better way of doing
this uh let's see what is typist um I'm
guessing
not no not at all actually it's um what
it is is I'm actually trying to recreate
Mathematica so math itica is like a
super cool way it's like an interpreted
language but it's all based on the idea
of pattern matching so what we're doing
is
we're um we're building the pattern
matcher to have so in in past streams I
started and I made pattern matchers that
use these first
two um pattern object types um but now
we're extending them to this more Rex
like thing where basically we can have
pattern objects that take you know one
or or more or zero or more Expressions
that they capture and so it makes the
the algorithm a little bit more
complicated I've been working on for
like a week now uh so it's not like
typist although I did hear a lot of
butts about
typist uh but I I haven't mess around
with this at all but yeah know totally
different thing this is a programming
language um and so the the real repo for
it in case you're curious which does
work it just doesn't work with pattern
variables is cast 3 to RS which I'll
drop in the that in case you want to
look at it I think it's the best
somewhat complete Mathematica out there
you can should be able to just cargo run
it uh the build is kind of annoying
because I added this dependency for uh
arbitrary Precision integers called rug
I think I might need to figure out how
to make the propile time a little bit
better typus included a subset format
like Syntax for writing
formulas
yeah I'm sure they have lots of shared
code
um yeah do you do you write Russ code
because you just linked the Russ
project or do you code at
all oh nice what's your GitHub drop it
I'll show you a
follow
what do you write what do you
code three four five six seven eight
this one no wait this is
eight thing I work on didn't push
anything last month but have some
progress let's
look oh wait
okay from Poland ethical web scraping oh
that's interesting
dude that's cool
man this
you they can't even follow you
damn this is
sick dude web scraping is so
cool so you trying to like make like a
common crawl dude I love common
crawl like
a
see
80 82% of raw tokens I bet this isn't
even well maybe that's
true that's
cool ethical web
scraping so what what was going
on so oh so this return true yeah that
definitely should not return
true more generic it's more of a tower
utility for D data retrieval an ethical
way
huh retrieval an ethical way what does
that
mean like what's unethical data
retrieval okay so we need to see
this case we just get a sim so we
shouldn't even go into this arm we get a
list else if contains
this
assert does not contain
it oh we still need
to put this in
here move this here move this move that
and then I think is this supposed to be
X yeah this will be
X and this will be
PS2 right no it should
be it should just be
uh should just be
Pat right let's try it
again okay getting
farther
okay so now we're in the list list
case and then we're here oh we just need
to do the same
thing is that for work or is that just
for let's
see oh yeah that's so interesting dude
because I actually so I I was working on
this thing uh rate limits are so
interesting uh so you don't DDOS the
resource aess something that should not
be included D duplication
cues I don't know what that is depth
limits you only get to three levels of
website
yeah yeah yeah yeah that's
cool yeah definitely the DDOS part is uh
sweet what was I
doing oh yeah cuz
well yeah that's super neat where's the
where's the rate limiting stuff or have
you not pushed it because I would love
to look at that that sounds
cool not yet
yeah yeah yeah I haven't pushed in a
minute
either I feel like pushing all the time
is obviously better but sometimes you're
lazy like sometimes I'm just lazy I
don't want to do it okay so
here per resource and Global Dynamic
rates cool what's a good like website
that you test against or do you have
your own infrastructure to like set
up tests to make sure that you actually
follow the
rules yeah I would love to look at that
code that that looks that sounds
interesting
dude all
recipes oh interesting you actually use
this
huh they have an
API oh nice that's
hilarious yeah we need every recipe
right
now yeah yeah no yeah I just thought
that's a funny
one okay so we need
to so we can assume the
insert
I think we can just copy
this but one
thing
uh
um in here the
position should be right but in here the
position actually needs to be zero okay
so let's do
this but we need
to we're going to actually move
this to right
here so for this for the purposes of
this whole thing we're doing head
matching and we don't want to return
here unless we get
false
but we do want to insert our guy and
then we want this to be new
P how long have you been working on that
I'm
curious what is X oh is xw is this
yeah yeah yeah I feel that I'm really
bad about making libraries like
especially stuff where you get it to a
point where it's like uh good enough to
release and then you know to not make
breaking changes I feel like I'm super
disrespectful of that and I just do lots
of breaking
changes
um
yeah I totally feel
that I was stalling on this for like a
crazy long time and now I'm just
like some point I got to do it
um oh I'm sus of this logic now
well if the very
head is pattern then these can all be
returns so I want to be explicit about
the returns now and list list
on I'm pretty sure that this is all
good then we only want to
return
the
um all right so we do want to return
true here because if the head is a
pattern object then we're matching the
entire
list but then otherwise we do our
iteration thing okay so let's see if
we've handled more cases
now uh
oh
somehow we went backwards a step we
broke
something so
now one and blank why is that not
working
okay wait
what
um oh
interesting
okay so for the inserts I want to add
our print statements so inserting
[Music]
on
I kind of want co-pilot back
whatever
uh I think I just do
this
oh uh if it's at the head then it's a
whole thing so we actually want just
pass oh sweet we got all of the cases
matching sick
so we just need to add head
heads is Peg like Nom yeah except I
think it's a it's a uh what's it called
um yeah yeah it's like Nom it's a paral
generator yeah what's y
again yeah
another
uh whoa made by Stephen Johnson dude
wait is this the same Stephen
Johnson this a different Stephen
Johnson busy working on I feel like this
is not uh this what you're supposed to
write in uh
Wikipedia um yeah here I can let me give
a brief this is like the simplest parser
I mean I don't know why I didn't pick
Nom I remember that I tried a couple of
them with GPT just generating my rules
and this one seemed like the simplest
possible thing because all I have is an
S expression parser here let me give a
little demo of cast three eh that's all
right um but I have a little repple and
why not let's open up cast
3 so in cast
3 I have a little repple where I can put
s Expressions into and I have a little
evaluator like a Mathematica evaluator
here uh so c r
release cool so now I should be able to
say set X to
one set X to 2 x you know stuff like
this uh plus X5 7 you know uh do I have
factorial fact a
th000 give me a big
number you have a bit of Nom let's look
at it let me look at Nom cuz I I
remember like I don't know my my thought
process is like parsing is not for me
the most interesting part of my project
at the moment so I didn't really care
but let's see yeah I thought this was
lower level like at a token level but
let's
see where do I find all the Nom related
stuff oh here we
go
yeah this seemed like a little bit more
overhead than I but maybe it's just cuz
I'm not used to
it SP all the Nom related
things I remember I tried to use it and
it was just like
uh let me look at their
examples they have a
Json
damn oh yeah I saw the lifetimes I was
like oh
jeez I'm sure it's probably more
performant than whatever I've got going
on oh here s expression that's
perfect
damn see that's what this like 400
it's like 10 lines of code I love
it
um see for some reason Nest fx10 or a
th000 let's see does that work oh that's
slow as
hell that's brutal why is that so
slow damn dude I do not like that at all
we're going to have to optimize the hell
out of this thing that
sucks gets exponentially slower that's
brutal I don't like that at all that's
very upsetting to
me we're going to have to figure out
it's probably
because it's probably
because
we uh don't do reference counting so
we're storing tons and tons and tons of
copies of the Expressions so that's
probably what it
is yeah it
yeah uh but if you look at like um what
internals
reference yeah
so here they give an indication that
basically the the way that they manage
memory in the system is with reference
counting so I think if I just made all
my Expressions do that then all my
clones would just be
copying a pointer instead of the entire
expression so I think that
that uh would make would resolve that
issue the the the whole point of this
project
is where can I do it
um I think it's just using standard art
r c what is it called
RC RC RC I think it's that and then I
just make my expression type RC's of all
those my
passw yeah I can replace it I can switch
it later but for right now performance
isn't my main
goal uh but I guess this is showing me
that performance is definitely going to
be an actual bottleneck my goal is that
uh I want to recreate the
um I want to recreate all the systems in
this chapter so cell your autom maybe
mobile autom definitely turning machines
substitution
systems and then one of the most
important ones for me is combinators
because I feel like combinators are sick
whereare
combinators
so I can do stuff like this but right
now you kind of can do
stuff
um
oops
so I kind of can do like K uh KX
y i do replace repeated
kxy C rules and I'll get X I should be
able to do
this but for some
reason
um for some reason nest
of
uh
s yeah ah why doesn't that work man that
bothers the hell out of
me for some reason there's a bug in the
evaluator like we don't end up
evaluating this but I don't know
why cuz I think if I copy and paste this
in does it self
evaluate so it doesn't find anything to
simplify down but that's just
wrong you want to contribute dude yeah
man I feel like so there's a there's one
more project called mathx 3 mathx 3 is
probably the more complete version of
um of what I'm trying to do but it's
written in Python and it's
like I don't know for me first I
couldn't even get it installed there was
some bugs with installing the uh thing
for me which is unfortunate but I wanted
to build my own just so I really
understood it I would say the best thing
to do is to if you can get onto wolf
from cloud if you have like an edu
account or
something
um just test things out like I just have
this notebook where I just test out how
the pattern matcher works and then I try
to make sure that it works in
here
um and then the I feel like this is like
one of the coolest projects you could do
because it's
like when you implement a programming
language you implement a programming
language in another programming language
uh or like assembly whatever but here
the amount that you do on the host
language side is super minimal like you
you bootstrap with as little as possible
like for example in C 3 if we look at
our
builtins uh internal functions
apply uh we basically just
do we just have this huge switch
statement where we look at the
head and we just so here is set so this
is how set
works it's kind of
messy
here's how plus
Works here's uh array
indexing and so there's there's like
super few Primitives that I feel like I
need to implement in the host language
that like talk to the
kernel why don't I so that's a good
question I could do that but the whole
point of of Mathematica is that you have
this insane flexibility that there's no
difference between a like um you know
any old symbol that you put into the
system yourself and these special
symbols so I could and then the parser
could like see that but there's some
cool Beauty to having an expression type
that like literally only has uh five
things in
it so like like for instance head of
head is
symbol head of my own my
X my expert is
symbol so it's kind of cool to
me that because otherwise what we would
do is then in our head
function we could just make like exper
uh what is one of these built-in
functions like set and it and it's like
a thing and it you know set it it
reports that the name of its head is Sim
but I feel like that would clutter a lot
of the Elegance of our expression type
where you just have symbols a few atoms
and then a compound expression
type but I I I have gone back and forth
on that and I
actually yeah there's so
there's let's see uh that long if house
is definitely scary that's for sure
wouldn't it make it here wait actually I
should probably do this so that the bod
will have
this uh that long if El is kind of scary
wouldn't it m uh make it possible to
optimize
transform what do you mean I don't get
the second part of
that um but yeah so one thing that's
really cool is that like if you
do um if you do head of a b
oh head can take two arguments so one
thing that's really cool is they parser
they must have some way of registering
or
telling um a a registered built-in
basically constraints on the number of
arguments that it can take and so then
it turns it red so I was thinking that
it might be cool to have some framework
to register built-in functions and I
could split all of these into their own
function uh that's totally
fine
yeah I need to see how that would work
so what he said was if you were to parse
them as tokens you could recognize
patterns of token sequences could you
give me an example like an S expression
example so you're saying
like yeah what we we need an example to
talk
about
through parus tokens you could recognize
patterns of token
sequences even back a
second but I agree this is like the most
sort of nasty part of the entire
uh code base it's just like 200 lines or
something of
like me hacking together something
random okay so where are we at here so
all our test cases passed so that's
beautiful we just need to now add the
check
here
where so now what we want to do is we
want to
say we actually want
to for
um
we we just want to add a thing that so
we want to
do helps.
push see
e
um
let me read your
comments you make it easier as you could
imple debug for token en
know I don't really understand what
you're saying though
like um I needed example of an
expression that
would
uh make it easier to
debug right now I derive debug
though oh scary math * 0 equals z Oh but
that's see that's the cool thing about
that is that it doesn't
matter because what you would do is you
would use pattern matching to write that
identity so it doesn't even matter
because I can
already do that
in cast three so we if we have cast 3 up
here I could say uh I could say
um set times lank 0 to zero and oh uh
here let's do
this uh my
times
then my times of anything else of
uh
pattern
a
blank pattern b
blank
returns Capital times which is the
actual
thing I think let's see do we get our
things right here so we need this one
here
set my
times of this for the times I okay so
now we should be able to
do is this right okay so now we should
be able to
say there is an LSP for that um that
would be pretty cool I I have not looked
into that at all um but so now we can do
my times of a time uh
times a b well let me show you what
times a so times a all it returns is
itself because there's no rule in its
list of defined rules that match that it
knows how to simplify that so that is in
essence the simplest way to represent
that expression now if we did my
times that of zero then we'd get zero so
we don't even have to really modify our
expression
structure let's see let's see let's see
that'd be so sweet if we could get LSP
integration that' be so
Random
nice that would be so Random for me to
hook this into I mean cuz it's like this
language is barely a language and then
we already have LSP support for
it how is a simple and composable
framework for implementing asynchronous
services in Rust
that would be crazy
dude that'd be so cool to hook into
language Sher oh man you got me thinking
bro you got me
thinking all not for right now but we
could do it you want to open an issue or
something I'll put that on the dock it
but first we got to get the pattern
matcher working cuz if we can't do
cellular autom and lit and sequence
matching then the whole thing is a bust
so we got to get our core language
features first but then it's then I'm
super down for
it and but by the way um when I
do oops times a b in here itself
evaluates to so it just so wait let me
this full form so you get the full and
it returns itself so basically we see
that there's no simpler way to do this
because A and B are undefined so they're
just
symbols yeah no I agree I mean I don't
know if you noticed
somewhat oh but um I do have the little
blue colors to help me uh but yeah I
mean that's why s expressions are
clearly not as good as having these M
expression for what it called M
expression yeah M
expression
um yeah
I was thinking of writing another M
expression parser with no infix so
nothing no no infix support but just a
basic M expression parser just so that I
could start to make my life a little
easier uh if you want to do that with
PEG I would be
super that would be like freaking cool
because then we could not have this
horrendous nightmare of parentheses and
parenthesis I will say you get better
with it and I think I did add that you
can do like my times enter a b like that
okay I guess not wait let me add a space
space oh wait no I think I know what it
is okay so I I made it a like slightly
more but with multi-line editing
but do you know do I know about tracing
uh what do you
mean
oh oh that's cool I can zoom in on
that that's like the Highlight that's
like the essence of this
stupid my parts is so
ridiculous oh Lis always gets hated on
for its parentheses usage
though oh man that's funny but one
advantage of this you never ever I mean
M Expressions don't really have this
either but you do not have to worry
about precedence and I always hated when
I was in like high school and I would
have to like put something in my
calculator and I would always add way
more parentheses than everyone else just
because I didn't want to remember
pemos um yeah I actually I think that
Peg
has some like Tracer built into it
actually
so it does have tracing I mean at least
we get this minimal thing where it tells
me that I expected some sort of
token
um yeah it's a priority thing like I
only have so much time and my goal is
first start getting like cellular
autometa and cool computational systems
and then once I'm like in a mode to like
really use my own
language then I can like start to add
more stuff but there's there's like too
much to do and it's kind of overwhelming
to like get lost in the weeds when I
just want to get my pattern matcher to
be at
least like right now list operations
basically don't work so how are we going
to do anything with
um like cellular autom if we can't just
append to a list and stuff like
that actually let's see can we Define
join set
my
join
um takes a
list
uh yeah I'm trying to think without
sequence support it's kind of because
what what you would do here once I
integrate the new let me zoom
in am I blocking it I don't know
I don't think
so once I integrate the new
uh the new pattern matcher I would do
list uh pattern X's
blank null
sequence
list or actually what I would do is I
would
Define
um
pattern
lists where I give it a blank null
sequence actually let's let's say it's a
blank sequence of with head
list then all I would do is give I would
make list of lists and so
then
oh wait but is that
true we' probably want to do like
replace
repeated list
rule list goes
to uh sequence and I think that
then that would join lists
together there's like lots of basic
stuff that it's just just going to be
really tough to do and without sequence
support basically nothing is
possible I'm going to zoom back
out okay so where were
we right so here we are thinking about
the case where we
where
if um
Pi blank.
Len
to we need
to and we need to make sure
that the this that um
if B head not equal to head of C then we
need to break we need to break I
think but the and we need to comment
this
out what's wrong this we need to
consider borrowing here we don't mutate
so that's fine we can just Bor this like
this oops go
got to clone
it what's wrong here clone it
again or wait hold
on yeah that's
fine
okay so my
problem is I don't know if
that I think we need to return false
there right I think we just want
to
[Music]
H
maybe break is okay let's try it on our
test case
here uh so I'm going to cut this out put
this at the
end I'm still kind of zoomed in no
definitely
not
all right so I'm going to undo all of
these cases right now run
this where's this stupid hello
world
oh oh
wait
that's not
good so it did match but then it didn't
insert what we needed it to
insert
I know I'm getting the suspicion that
this
could run forever
somehow
see does it print here it should insert
right yes so it does insert into
it
oh but it returns false right so wait
this is the false case yeah so hold
on since it returns false it doesn't
matter what the
map
is we want to add a BD
here
cool
nice so that that actually worked uh
pretty
good all right so let's add that to
blank null sequence
too a lot of
code
and then
here okay the loop Downs are still
good then we want to do that same thing
here you have to be careful
about so
here uh
um okay that looks
good A Moment of Truth
nice we need to add a bunch of test
cases looks very C++ to you the language
or the implementation the implementation
I could definitely see I I really have
never used C++ to be
honest like for a real thing I've never
used C++ but I actually kind of want to
um implement this Mathematica clone oh
yeah I don't know I don't I'm good
enough at rust to like do it the right
way
so this is all just me
like bumbling around like a
fool okay so let's get a let's do this
one we remove the
[Music]
pattern damn that's
think I don't see
why that failed
though at one you replace that
with those two list with a sequence of
those oh wait it doesn't look like it's
putting it in a sequence though
shouldn't
it do we store the I guess we don't
store the
sequence so what we want to do is we
want
to we want to do this regardless and
then we going to
say assert reuil
X
what
oh oh I'm tripping okay so consider
draa oh panic and D is scary AF yeah bro
yeah it is it is you better be careful
cuz it is scary we live on the edge
here
yeah dude the panic and dff is wild I I
actually don't want it but like the
problem is it makes the coat annoying
cuz then I just have to constantly match
and I maybe on my like fifth go around
of writing this pattern matcher I'll
finally do away with the draff but it's
just so handy it's just so
handy actually instead of panicking I
should just
print I can replace match if else with
match is that true all right I hold on
hold on hold on you give me overload uh
what I want to do
is I want to debug this thing really
quick cuz
this
uh oh you can do that yeah I forgot
about that
and that'll will that tell it that
it's yeah ah okay I I should do that
yeah that that's nice because I I do
want that
actually oh yeah wait hold on you should
print this above
here oh
um I don't I don't really care it's just
dis Sim Sim is just
uh Sim is just a handy thing to convert
a string to a symbol so it just takes a
point of a string and call s.2
string uh maybe you can directly
match so we can generate the jump table
okay yeah you mean for performance right
for performance I'm I mean because I
allocate a symbol every time I do that
comparison there
um oh but I do need to call this okay so
um
um this shouldn't Panic so I should be
able to do but
this here M yeah and then we can comment
this out now I should be able to
see I should be able to see what that
expected
wait
damn dude I wish we could just hop on a
live share Discord and you could just do
help me do this no I I want to focus for
right now but let's
see all right hold on maybe yeah all
right wait let me just like do this for
like 20 more minutes
um
um maybe you could hack around on it
locally I just have to make sure that I
get this pattern matcher to work because
otherwise uh otherwise I'm I feel like
uh I'm going to lose it I feel like I'm
close okay here here's where the
comparison
failed so for some
reason yes we had sequence of two lists
so that's perfect that's what we
wanted but then it didn't
rebuild Why didn't it
rebuild the POS
map oh wait it's
empty that's not
good but it
does
okay what what could be going wrong
here
um yeah so this case
so okay let's go back up
so where are we printing this we print
this we say at position one in the
pattern which is blank seek a we get
this list sequence of ab and another
call of a
AC then we insert
that
no all right let's see why did that not
rebuild it as we
expected
uh oh wait this is in blank null
sequence we just not do it
for what happened so so wait we need to
move
this but that is exactly the right
thing so we should have returned true
here
the heck is going
on yeah but add my add me on Discord
though you should add me on I think it's
linked in my thing we should definitely
do that because you seem interested and
I love the idea that someone's excited
about this because I think this is super
cool um oh sweet that's tight you can
add me as a friend too if you want um I
don't check Discord a ton but
I think maybe as if people start joining
I'll I'll keep it open on my
computer dude you're the best
man you're the homie for
real okay
um I copy that over
too can move that
garbage man this code is getting so
nasty it's
crazy so much copied
stuff so why is it that
in here cuz this definitely is true we
can see
that in position
IAL the new expression is exactly equal
to the original
expression so this should return true so
then this should return
true but for some
reason
for some reason we're getting an
empty am I being crazy right
now
let me look at my original code in mat
shirt
too what do we do at the
end after we're done
iterating I thought we I thought we have
that oh yeah right here
fin
all
harison wait we actually prefer
this
I know print debugging is pretty cringe
but I am at a loss because I don't
really
know oh well that is certainly
interesting is random as
hell are we just indexing wrong are we
rebuilding wrong that could
be that total it could
be
um [__] can we do
this
okay okay yeah so the first thing we do
is we say since a blank sequence the
minimum length has to be one so we take
the first AB
list and now we call match again with
the rebuilt expression and we splice in
this sequence into the expression call
match
again uh then we say so why is a there
that makes no sense at
all
what what am I doing that's so not
right yeah I don't see anything mangling
it
like up in the named
case but and then the old is just AB
I feel like we're replacing I feel like
the position is being calculated wrong
somewhere yeah yeah because it's like
one level too
deep I feel like we're pushing somewhere
where we shouldn't
be but I feel like we Ed position
well we don't use
position in the named case so that could
be so we push
I which should be right isn't
it because
this where did
SEO um
so yeah so so okay so let's look it this
is what our test case is our test case
is um we have a list with a symbol and
then we have AB AC and BD and what we're
trying to do and the way that
Mathematica works is that if you give
blank blank sequence or blank null
sequence an optional argument called H
or a or whatever you call then you need
to make sure that that argument matches
to all the lists that you're matching so
the head of this and all subsequent
things needs to match the argument in
the blank and so what we're trying to
say is that in this test case f matches
to F and blank sequence of a cannot what
we're testing is that cannot steal this
guy because I wish I could zoom in with
like a a nicer zoom
in Well we'd like to to say is that
that uh and I think I have this case
there'll be test that this is false that
this blank sequence cannot eat up this
BD list because we put a restriction
that the only things that it can match
are things with head a
so that's a description of the problem
and for some reason even though that
these test cases work correctly and we
can see the maps all work out for some
reason we're seeing something
interesting when we're doing positional
and and a broad description of what's
happened by the way what's your name I'd
like to say your name uh I can just say
your username
alala um a a broad description of what
the algorithm is doing
OE what what's actually happening is we
keep track of where we are as we recurse
the expression tree we keep track of
where we are with respect to the pattern
and we call the pattern is the second
argument to the the match function and
we keep track of that position so that
if we have an unnamed pattern we can
replace it given this VC of uze so we
have this
POS uh oops which is a vck of U size and
this says where are we in the
pattern uh
expert and so what we're seeing
here is
um is we have this this is our position
I print out the this veca uze here we
have a one and we're saying the position
one in our pattern which should be
this
name
uh so in named patterns where you have
this explicit pattern symbol blank blank
object name matters because if you have
in mathema
if you have um let's see F of
a uh AC
C uh and you try to match that
with you try to match that with f
of I'm not sure how you can match to
lists two
lists to nested lists uh it' be easier
if you wrote out the expression
the two
lists he can match two lists to a nested
list yeah well what happens is you Peak
you Peak into the the nested list and
you say is it a pattern object and if
it's a pattern object then it can match
multiple ones and specifically for these
sequence ones you can take
multiple
um so this position one should refer to
this that seems all
right I don't know it's for some reason
we're just
messing
up and here it's just because it returns
false so something goes wrong in the
final
comparison
oh hold
on what's going on
here oh no here's the one sequence a b a
c
I should just use the debugger I don't
know what the heck I'm
doing yeah it's kind of a I would say
um
uh let's
see
uh let's just let's just do
this um my other streams have
good um let's see do we have a example
of a minimal so in
here I forget I think that this is the
minimal
example yeah okay so this
one I'm going to push this to GitHub
just so that you can read some of the
other examples of pattern
matchers
um this is the simplest pattern matcher
where
blank is a
symbol not a
list and cannot have a head then we go
further
and so yeah so in our case our wild card
is no longer just a symbol blank now we
have blank as a zero argument
function
uh
this also supports named
blanks
IE
pattern x blank and let's see do we have
head support here yes
um with an optional first
argument to blank for head matching okay
so let's let's do this GH repo
create um
C five I don't these these are all
arbitrary names
um okay let's see added some comments
let's make sure that test pass to CR
release okay so it that should be
okay and then I'll push it okay so then
let's go
to uh GitHub
um cast 5 RS okay so this one should
have a minimal pattern matcher where
where we don't have sequences so this is
the non-sequence case cool just in case
uh
um so this is the minimal
one and
then why don't I put up matcher two I'll
put up matcher two as well
um this is an
old version of pattern
matching that has some sequence
support but
is uh loaded and
buggy does not
support so let me add the comment
actually in
here this is so messy I'm not going to
clean this up cuz we're already on to
the next thing does not
support
un
not
unns no
position
track
okay and we'll just do this again I
don't care about spamming GitHub this is
I'll just call this matcher to I don't
know these names are nonsense but
I don't think uh I really care okay so
we have that one so that's an example of
a big bloated thing and then did we did
I push get uh cast six let me push this
one cuz this is the real
one oops did I messed something
up okay I'm going to call this cast six
call all right so now everything should
be up so at least I don't have to worry
about um because I was trying to view
this on my phone anyways and I
couldn't um but know back to what we
were
on
I'm pretty sure the problem
is related is just that is
that we are comparing the wrong levels
of positions so for some reason we think
we're deeper than we are so we're trying
to con that's how we get this a a
thing where is that a a all right so I
wanted to run this again where I print
out the
original see what's going
on oops
good right we're we're in here we're
replacing right it needs to be relative
it needs to be relative when we rebuil
so we need to chop
off yeah that's right okay so I think
the
problem I don't know if it's in there or
in
there I think the issue is a depth
mismatch
basically
but actually Pat why is Pat a that
doesn't seem right at
all or is it they were rebuilding
twice damn I'm so
close
test in case
too okay first we do the obvious
thing okay in
positional where's that in positional
and we've already
replaced
for
is this right do you apply all the rules
you've accumulated or is it that
you've what happens if I do this do
something
crazy
I feel like that's just
wrong
oh okay wait but I feel like that's
wrong for all of the other cases there's
no way that's
right but in some sense if you get to
there maybe you just don't need to
rebuild at the end and it seems like we
figured it
out so let's actually look though
sequence a a that's pretty nice okay I'm
a little sus that this is right but
let's make sure that we actually get
that we run our
tests yeah that's what I
thought that's what I thought no way
that's
right
yeah because we're just not doing the
rep placeing
it
wait
what wait why did this return
false yeah no you're supposed to you're
definitely supposed to
uh
I'm pretty sure it's cuz all of my test
cases are flat and this one's not
flat
so what was Pat
here okay let's disable all of our guys
again except
for the last
one yeah it's placing it too
deep named okay
you
for
all right Pat is not what I expect it to
be right so we we have the
right thing here but we have the
wrong we have the
wrong
pattern
I'll be right
back
for
e
all right it's time to use the
debugger it's time to bring in a
hammer
a
okay all right so now we want
to I'm going to break at wow this thing
turned into a big ass function it's kind
of
annoying
all right let's
try why doesn't it I don't like that it
doesn't really don't like
that
I have a Deb color right I should be
able to say
X
this thing's
stinky right that's
correct now we're matching the
head
now we're
saying and it
doesn't okay so like
that
we're matching f with f so we're
good
n poses
one we have a
list because it's blank a it's or it's a
blank seek a we're looking at a so Pat
I wish it would just tell me what it is
it's super
annoying okay so we're going to jump
over this okay then we're going to go in
here
e
dude just print it out for me so why why
is El's length two
already
for
damn wish it would print it out
stupid makes it like not that
useful Okay cool so now we want a
match yep that's
good
for
h
okay so
continue Okay so we've popped back out
right
yep
sh
what is it is it
lb is the lb one
right
[Music]
h
seems pretty mid
honestly
um
oh that call stack thing is kind of nice
oh and it stores where we were at that's
pretty cool I just wish we would print
it
better
for
hm
[Applause]
h
damn I'm so
close
for
[Music]
h
for
what is Pat at this
point
oh
what
h
e
for
that's
it
for
e
H why don't we ever see a 2 one here or
two
for
h
the pattern is BD why is the pattern
BD
okay so we're
in here let me get our
list we don't need to think about any of
this
okay so now we're matching ab and ab so
that's where that's
at
wait but we're not in there we're
in
here
maybe that's like
problem
for
let
try
I just think this is totally
wrong
for
could it
be there's no freaking
way no what I think we did
it
I don't really believe it yet it's too
good to be
true
did we really do it that's crazy there's
no
way
if that's true I just don't understand
the AL why do we need a
recurse do we do it up
here oh I guess we
do hm
interesting man I miss Olli Ollie would
be proud that we got it
working
[Music]
um
so let's make sure
that
what I think we might have [__] done
it all right so now
do we have a rebuild in
here
for
all right let's copy it in let's see
what let's see what
happens
this would be nuts if we could just get
this to
work
damn okay so what's going
on okay so that's okay so let's start at
the top
here give it a pointer
oh I think we could actually just do
this
n sometimes that's useful I don't know I
don't want to put a bunch of trash in
here seems like a lot of
trash let's go back
down
um yeah this works
except
[Music]
h
e
[__] is almost too good to be
true
for
this is
missing so what we want
here
this
e
P now is this true or should this be a
blank
h
oh we just switched the order I got
it so we make this
blank then we move
it
for
H you have a parse function
it's
random moment of freaking truth
no
way no
way I'm going to cry it we did it we
integrated the new pattern
match I don't believe it I don't believe
it
uh-uh
um yeah I think that's right
um
for
what oh yeah that's good one of
them
I need get a pointer
here
oh man yes
okay do I have
length
we don't have
for
and now we need to make all the rule
stuff use the new pattern
matcher so all the replace needs to do
patter
okay
we're actually going
to
um so we're
GNA yeah I mean this is just so error
prone
because
when you make changes like this you have
no idea if you're using match
Q so it can be really
messy but in both of these we can change
this
to oh hey what's up dude I didn't know
you were still here
you left dude we did it we're almost
done I'm integrating it back into cast 3
so I copied it in and I think
everything's working I I put new tests
in we just need to make this and this my
we
um oh
sick that's so cool having you along for
the way dude this is a really big
achievement for me honestly like this is
really
uh so now when you replace
this is a good
question that's sick dude oh you're the
[__]
man um the position should be new right
if we're calling match then we need to
do maybe we should have a
helper that does this thing so
uh
um we just call it is match 2 I guess
anyways it takes an X of typ pointer to
exper and a pat of typ pointer to
xer and that's all and it returns a
bu and it basically just does my match
of
xat back
hashmap H not to do
that
new okay what's wrong I need to give it
a pointer spected
pointer
mute
and
po which WR Pat need to clone it I don't
know some of the things are really rough
around the edges but
uh interestingly the other one in
replace takes the bindings I need to
remember everything that I did
here
oh no it oh no okay cool that's what I
thought so we can just get rid of
this this we
[Music]
can
oh
huh no no no we need the
maps we need the
maps we need the named map we don't need
the position map because that's just
used to verify that we found a matching
but
um
okay so I'll just call my
match we'll
say uh V of blank and give it a
pointer uh then we need the pass map
which is going to be a pointer to a mute
Dash map new and then this one is the
Bindings that we keep around with us
this we got a clone for some reason
do
that I can use the slice
ref yeah this is something I wish rust
helped me a little bit more with is like
um yeah okay in like in like five
minutes minutes I I'd love to uh that'd
be sick to have a yeah dude absolutely
give me uh let me just see if it works
and I want to test a couple cases but
then absolutely after that okay so
bindings to rules what does this take
this takes a string we need to change
this okay we need to change that really
quickly
um man I've never built a project like
this so I'm I'm
prone to duplicating code really messily
but we need to change this to uh we're
going to call
this Pat bindings to rules and here this
takes an expert and we just need to get
the name out of
it
um so this is
Pat and
then
I need to do this or something okay so
now this should be a Sim we should be
able to just put name in
there clone
it uh
I don't
know okay so it says borrow there then
it
says what if I just do
this so it's saying put ref here
okay oh wait
wait that's what I'm going to
do remember pattern X plank okay we grab
that
guy does this get called anywhere
besides
okay it just gets called one place so we
need to make this P findings to rules
that in this
hashmap
because we want to actually
replace this call so put this
here
damn keeping a code Base clean is like
hard okay so now let's try to run these
tests again I feel like I missed
something [__]
man
I actually like this without the loop
where I do
this okay well let me play around with
it try to isolate this
issue
well let's look at this
print
damn what's going
[Music]
on so our combinator one for some reason
is
failing one two three
oh God I knew I
[Music]
knew all right let's hop on Discord I'm
going to revert
this we
should copy this because we're going to
oh
[__] wait
um oh it's because
uh
because of our
builtins I can call this new match and
then this supposed to match
here okay let's
see damn I thought we had it all right
we got to we're going to have to go back
um so I'll just say uh what are what are
all the changes in
here it's a nonsense all right
partial partially got the new
pattern still need to
deug do I even have Discord maybe I
don't oh wait hold on let me do this
really
quickly I'm
mute
what's up
man
huh it's a mess yeah it's a mess it
totally is a
mess it really is all
right yeah that's
me
sort of
yeah
right
yeah so what about a pointer to a VC
though oh I see that's what the amp
percent
is oh I see
okay
right okay so you're saying that all the
places where
I have a
V when I can borrow the data I have to
think about
that
um yeah do I have live share on here
let's live
share yeah makes it a lot
easier as long as you you know promise
not to rmrf my
machine yeah yeah I know I default to
read only but uh all right let me
uh oh hold on let
me to just authenticate really
quickly okay should be good
now
okay all right put it
in
uh say that
again oh yeah this seems like a seems
like an interesting thing because I I'm
coming from Julia like I used to write a
lot of Julia code and they have
no there's no notion of putting like
imple like imple isn't really a
thing so that's why I've have all of
these functions not
imple
um I looked it
up not
really still not really almost all
Dynamic languages Python and stuff like
that yeah yeah so but is there any issue
with this or the fact that it just sort
of clutters the name
space
yeah oh yeah right you can tap complete
it easier
huh
H oh
yeah
yeah yeah that makes sense that seems
like pretty in the weeds for how
performing I I expect it to be but no
that's a good point I didn't think about
that at
all but could the compiler not figure
that out based on the type signature
either
right yeah you're
right line
yeah to do this
this
work
cool uh I think I did I put in
Discord oh yeah sorry I could have dm'd
you my bad
U
nice
okay yeah
sure history is um uh every every time
you put a command into the repple it
will save uh it will save a text file so
that you have your history of what
commands you've run so you can reverse
search yeah yeah no I think just cargo
new cargo new started with SL Target so
I don't you know
mind
cool wor let me click
follow okay
yeah
okay
sure oh sure
yeah
uh it's all right for right now I
think yeah
sure yeah
yeah yeah
yeah sure go
ahead hey let me Branch so that we have
uh
let me Branch really
quick uh stream
changes
cool all right go ahead
yeah oh yeah you in C let me follow you
cool
yeah
okay yeah I I saw it somewhere and I
just put it
in
yeah I really wish that the formatter
would do that for me I always I always
expect it to make it like Optimal where
it sorts out the tree but it never and
then that duplicate Imports for some
reason it doesn't remove them it just
errors it's just a gripe of
mine like if I have like if I have two
standard collection hash Maps this one
airs but if I try to format it doesn't
remove this one I just find that really
odd
oh okay
cool yeah right
man
yeah
yeah okay
let me look up these crates really quick
just see what they do okay this one
seems okay it's from Tokyo all right I
trust that and then tracing
subscriber okay
cool
okay cool I just added
them oh yeah we we can get to that later
but that for right now we're good but
yeah I
or or is there something that would yeah
no go I mean I can add clap I just
remember it taking a while to compile I
was but
yeah yeah yeah I guess I could add clap
all right I'll clap let's see what
happens all right I just added
it oh wait I can do that from the
okay yeah you can do that I can add it
from the command line though
too
nice
see yeah EnV filter yeah I found it
cool
whoa
okay oh yeah
yeah I've had some bugs with
uh I can
um I can put
it yeah it's kind of annoying um and
then let's see hold
on you need to fix
these oh oh I see
okay
okay cast three
yeah
yeah okay cool
cool oh yeah
yeah oh
yeah
yeah the only thing that's cool about it
is that it's homo iconic so I can copy
and paste it and it's a valid
expression right like
whatever oh I see okay
yeah
okay that makes sense
yeah CU because at one point we had like
display would give me the S expression
so fab but then this one would give me
expert or debug would give me expert
list you know s
expert oh do you
see um okay yeah Sim F or and it would
do uh back so it would print out this
nice
thing uh but yeah know if I mean I don't
know if that's standard but it was nice
that like this was the display and then
this was the
debug because debug is just when you
print out uh like this
right
yeah so what else would I want
to log there what else would I want to
put in
there
yeah
okay
yeah uh what look at
what
I can yeah I'm following you you're
you're looking at the parse function but
what what is wrong with
this
yeah I gotta be honest
I I'm a little bit partial to liking
these non- imple forms I don't know
maybe it's CU I'm coming from uh Dynamic
languages but I I like the well can't
can I do both can I do imple
exper uh oh wait hold on let me stop
following you really quick okay can I do
imple exper
parse
um uh oh
wait how would how would I do this
um because you wouldn't you wouldn't
want to do expert. parse right because
expert is not a
string
oh okay yeah all right so Essa type
pointer to stir and goes to expert and
we throw otherwise and then we basically
just call
this right
yeah
yeah yeah yeah
true but I wouldn't delete this one out
of convenience so maybe I would just
mirror them and keep two
implementations because I like being
able to just write Pars in a
string
huh yeah
well yeah I guess it's just that I
prefer this one I just like writing
things like this where I just call parts
of
string but
uh yeah no I know all right well let's
see how it goes
with all right so let me just say two
remove because I have a whole bunch of
tests that rely on pars but we'll we'll
keep this one and see I'll see how it
you know I'll use it for a bit and see
how it
goes it's just I have to type a bit more
but I I I see that
it for
what where does it error
huh
yeah
well in this case I feel like it's clear
but for something more complicated I I I
I get
it
yeah
yeah no no yeah you're doing things the
correct way that's for sure uh yeah
that's a lot of detail but I guess it's
what it's required to make a real
project
um
yeah
huh
m
uh does that does that sort of does that
sort of steal the error that gets thrown
because on unwrap it gives me the parse
error oh okay cool yeah that's
nice yeah
cuz the cuz it's nice that the unwrap
tells me where the parse went
wrong
cool
yeah
yeah yeah there's a lot of stuff in here
where I just yeah yeah yeah I mean get
it to work I
just well hold on where let me follow oh
these
yeah
uh but I like
them yeah no I I know that uh the I
guess
the I guess the reason why is this
project is a little bit of a in a unique
case because it's not meant to be used
as
a library right it's more of an
application so it's it's like almost
under the assumption that no nobody
should ever touch this code in the first
place
um but yeah I mean there's no
difference
huh
yeah
yeah uh all right so we can put him in
info
yeah I was trying to figure out what the
thing is to make it slices but I didn't
know oh
nice yeah I like that that's list e is
just it just instead of taking uh
strings it takes
expers for
expressions
oh wow hey yo someone raided me this is
the first time this has happened dude
this is sick what's going on
guys we're uh this guy Olie just joined
today for the first time and he uh he's
helping me make my rust code less awful
so uh you know we're seeing what's going
on right now I panic all over the place
and he's telling me how to do things
corly all right so
uh
yeah yeah
yeah that's the case where you have just
a
uh just like a blank parenthesis you
you're not allowed to do that in uh
Mathematica yeah I haven't I forget
exactly one thing that's interesting
that Mathematica does is that when when
some computations fail they'll actually
uh let me go to Mathematica really quick
uh like they'll actually return a symbol
what's a case where you get
failed uh but it just returns a symbol
with called dollar
failed uh yeah like open read
non-existing so this one's interesting
it does throw a message but it actually
just uh returns a symbol so that's sort
of a convention that I started to copy
with that uh get [__] symbol
return yeah so this is still a valid
expression
exactly because then I don't crash the
program or anything like that I just
throw a little
error
um Russ needs to be ugly that's what
that's the chat
thing I actually kind of agree but I I
have a I feel like I've I've accumulated
some bad habits though as you've
seen oh
another um you're saying a new you're
saying new uh enum
Branch
yeah
how
and then you throw you call
error
yeah yeah that's kind of
nice uh wait but let's revert these I
feel like this is fine for now yeah I
feel like I feel like we don't need the
error call
um all right
cool yeah yeah there yeah pretty much of
the like little helpers for
uh oh yeah apparently they can't hear
you um let me try to change
that uh okay wait say something
now hey hello okay I think they should
be a you know what I'm not sure if it's
good thing because kipy actually
replaces that I mean it it's a warning
but there is the macro
matches oh yeah I I've seen that I think
I might use that in one of the other
projects I was messing around with um
yeah and you could do it like that uh
list like that
yeah oh that that's that's that's
actually pretty nice I'm kind of down
with that um that's
cool just leave that as a comment for
now
yeah
yeah do you have a limiter on his output
why do I need what is that should I turn
it
down
limiter uh I'm just trying to make sure
that their audio is uh yeah yeah
yeah we hear him but low oh yeah let me
just turn me
down uh okay what about now I think it
should be all say something
again hey hey hey hey okay that's all
right I think we're about equal now that
should be okay I guess um
right table entry uh instead of calling
those like creating those R
directly you could use your helper
function you defined on top
here uh instead of oh yeah wait don't I
yeah uh no you don't because inste you
can use um what it called like
expression from string uh and then you
can like uh list
you could use this instead
instead
well yeah it would be like that but
yeah yeah but actually before but let me
stop that right now we're actually going
to need to change how this works anyways
because the the list of the way that
Mathematica works is it actually has so
it has a list of rules that are stored
for a given symbol so down values are
basically they store some symbol and map
to a list of rules so for f ofx equals X
for example you can also Define f of
blank equals the string high and so
there's an actually an insertion order
defined where they look at what pattern
you're giving it and Define some sort of
how specific it is so f of x is actually
more specific than blank and then going
even further if it's like an atom F of
one equals uh hello so this gets
inserted before these so this is sort of
just a hack to basically enforce that
the user has to apply Supply Like rules
that are defined in the in the order of
most specific to most General so just
later on we're going to have to I'm
going to have to do something to make
this more
um you know instead of just appending to
this list we're going to have to do
something smarter so
uh that's just some context of why it's
not really fleshed out it's just sort of
not well thought
out oh so Sim creates another expression
and then this one it creates from
expression so call list here so you
could just do this and this would be the
same
thing yeah yeah yeah I got it so if you
were to unwrap it that would be like
expression uh from
expressions and that would be like that
right from from expressions
and yeah okay I got it yeah yeah I mean
definitely the the way with some kind of
Constructor would be nicer I guess here
hold on let me oh wait for
you oh yeah I mean we can just control Z
like yeah for some reason I feel like
the history got like messed up and I was
undoing stuff I shouldn't know so
anyways oh that the I remember I
remember this thing I'm not sure what
yeah I think that's list
okay yeah oh yeah okay
cool yeah listy I I was like when I made
that I was like wow this name is
awful Wy
yeah and I What's Happening Here um I
don't actually know if I use this or if
I manually do it I probably call it a
few times yeah I call it once basically
um given an expression
oh yeah I get it uh this whole thing
could be written as map you own like
that that's
it uh and what happens oh and it just
propagates the option okay yeah
yeah that's pretty
nice M pretty
cool I feel like to get good at rust you
have to know these things like otherwise
you end up writing a lot of code uh that
you know people have already
done yeah
definitely this one can also be on
import right but I'm not sure about that
because not sure what it
don't uh the
stack uh no internal function Supply but
yeah yeah I
mean bit is that is that how you would
do this rust idiomatically I'm trying to
think
um so the general no idea what what
happens here yeah so the general so go
down to go down to the function evaluate
because there's basically two things
going on in um I do FN evaluate you'll
find it um okay here so there's
basically I mean Mathematica works very
simply you start up the program and then
you give it an expression and it Returns
the result of that expression which is
another expression so you have this
expert to expert signature here and then
there's just some other context that you
keep
around
yeah yeah so you can see in the
main yeah I get it the
uh
yeah but I still don't like I know that
it's rust like rust people say to do
this as impul
but yeah I I have trouble figuring out
why you need to besides this thing about
the cash lines will be close
together I mean it it will be in cash
line if you combine a construct but you
don't need to think about that that's
just a minor performance detail that's
that's not the reason to do that uh the
reason is that you get your methods on
your structure right yeah okay the tab I
I have to use that for a while maybe
I'll I'll make a cast 7 and I'll try to
do it all with impul and see how clean
it feels to do it uh because if it if it
is easier to write them then I can see
why people do it but
yeah um okay so yeah that makes sense to
me um yeah we can definitely do
something with those clones because
that's a lot of them and obiously
something to do with those
lals
um like those Sim Sim things CU again
I'm not sure if they part of spec and if
you are allowed to extend them yeah
sorry say say that again those oh this
like this things right I guess this one
of Errors right
um yeah oh for inance this thing right
like oops misclicked like this thing why
does it say list in so okay so the way
that Mathematica works is uh there's a
head called list and it's it's an I
understand oh yeah yeah okay I
understand I'm I'm not I'm not about
like details of a spank
but why do you have list here like why
is this strength lateral like does it
happen one time like you have part here
right I mean could they be potentially
like if they if they are part of the
spec like those words if they like key
wordss or whatever yeah uh why wouldn't
they be like a method yeah they ABS
you're right they absolutely should it
was it was more so that I was just
coding you know and I didn't think to
like refactor it out but you're you're
absolutely right that all of these
things where you're I was thinking the
the design for these internal functions
like you may want to have some sort of
hook where you like specify all right
here are all the built-in functions
here's how many arguments they can take
stuff like that so that as you register
them you get you get something more
because I I would keep running into this
thing where I expect some number of
arguments to some of these functions
like times here times only takes two
arguments but times in Mathematica can
take a VAR adct number of arguments so
um I guess the the point is uh maybe by
having some way to register functions
you can say okay this can take this many
arguments uh and whatnot um so anyways
this whole the whole design of this
internal function apply I don't really
like but yeah makes sense I'm sorry why
do you why do you convert I size to I
songs and then you unwrap it there
probably it probably GitHub a
co-pilot it's probably
GP
integer yeah wait that's kind of weird
because when I hover my mouse it
says it should be
fine to what should it be two I I side
oh it's not even showing up a well oh
you know why because that that integer
is a um uh it's a um it's from rug so
it's yeah yeah so it's big in yeah so uh
you could I think you could actually
avoid it unwrap if you wrap the integer
or you could Adit the actual error
here because again I'm not sure what the
what's what spec says about that like
like are used to post like swallow the
error like a and like if it never
happened we can just Adit that that it's
out of
bounds
yeah yeah
again wait what happens here what is
Al uh those are the list elements
usually let's see they're up here
so
um what's Happening Here Yeah so why do
you match list three
times
wait
I don't actually remember I think it was
so that I
can uh index a a list with another list
or index a list with an integer or an
index so there yeah need to look into
that because it's definitely can be
written less um messy I guess
yeah guess you have like you match list
here you match list here you
match
oh not
list um oh and return the
list
yeah I can hear your disappointment
that's
hilarious no no it's fine I mean totally
fine yeah oh also oh yeah we've been
here wait what is that that's probably
the pattern match that's the that's the
new pattern matx wait is it is it a
single function
wait yeah it's just one
function I keep scrolling yeah no I know
I
know okay okay I mean it's soly
reasonable it's right under 400 lines of
code yeah is match oh is match is
perfect candidate for uh including it
into imput block yeah yeah and you could
also have some other structure ofly that
would maintain all your like a I guess
stack like Parson stack you like the
evaluation context whatever yeah yeah
yeah because here you just you pass your
hashmap like everywhere
yeah it's definitely another way to go
and obviously you could just you could
then Implement your you could add your
inut block to your context and make it
fancy what is that
like
uh I mean like addition like you could
drop your hash mop there right uh and
instead of calling
directly on like and passing it
everywhere I mean again Bings bings I
mean you can see it everywhere right
yeah you could just use it as self
here obiously so let me just show you
yeah you
could like Contex Contex whatever it's
again I don't know what happens in here
I better way struct and then inside of
it you would have um obviously
hashmap and then here you would imple C
whatever and you would OB add this thing
here yeah yeah that's that's nice I like
that yeah yeah but this thing would be
self and then instead of doing this
thing where you just you find the
function in outer scope and then you
call your bindings right yeah you do
yeah
um yeah instead of this you do it a bit
bit fancy way right you just um you
create new
bindings somewhere somewhere somewhere
there like not here on your code and you
maybe do like
default right yeah or you could like new
and pth like your hashmap if you well
you maybe save it somewhere whatever and
then you do a bindings Dot and you call
this function here like
that yeah that's that's clean I like
that um
um yeah you obviously don't need that I
mean I could Comm it out yeah that's
good again candidate for self um
candidates for like separate functions I
guess guess again I don't I I don't know
this pack so yeah yeah um this thingy is
a
yeah I don't think you want to do that
because first you clone the whole
expression so it means you clone the
whole under
line wait
what yeah I I don't know what's going on
there actually wait I have have a brain
like um does expression implement
the I think I have an eror somewhere
like with
a like a code highlight cuz I'm not sure
what happens here wait uh why can you
use this this operation on on expression
but expression does not oh wait never
mind never mind I understand you you
have draff yeah I have dra
yeah
yeah yeah not good uh you can get a
wrange from the reference and then copy
the wrange itself because what you end
up doing here you copy the whole vector
and then you gra grab the wrange yeah
right uh
so you can what you can do you can use
an iterator here iterator and then I
think it's range where you specify the
like it collects everything from first
till the last one oh is it called rest
or something yeah yeah tail yeah maybe I
just remember but something like that it
would be much better obviously because
you don't need to copy the first element
I mean in this case it's only one
element obviously yeah uh
but then wait but then you need to pop
the first element so you reallocate the
whole
thing
um yeah yeah so you could just yeah copy
the the rest not not the whole pink and
then relocate it again
replace
wait I feel like replace is bad name
right uh it's it matches the name in
Mathematica but it could be a yeah
something else yeah because replace in
my head at least it sounds something
that mutates
something right yeah yeah that I see
what you mean uh yeah this thing does
not mutate anything it takes one thing
it applies this rules and returns a new
one yeah I've seen it called substitute
in other places um I guess okay got
it
wa
what
uh
what oh okay I see I see I see so you
pass it by reference and then you you
make it
mutable so we can okay so we can replace
it
back okay I was a bit a bit Yeah bit
surprised to see why it's uh why it's
mutable here yeah
okay I mean you
could why do you clone
your I don't know I probably just got
some lter some breast analyzer warning I
think you
could I'm not sure they bindings but I
think you could
do yeah like that
um yeah that seems yeah so just got rid
of the Clone right oh wait hold on um
yeah yeah okay cool that
works yeah and you obviously don't need
this sled there then you can yeah yeah
you could just yeah
yeah look at that it's
because expected
what oh wait oh we're in a for Loop we
can't just do that
oh yeah you're right you're right I did
not notice that you're right I mean I
mean the best thing we can do we can
just put the yeah return
here yeah CU because what that does is
it finds the first rule that matches and
then it returns yeah I got
it nor rules L
rules really weird name I guess Norm
rule I I it's normal Noise Okay yeah got
it got
it again um can be really
noce uh candidate for self because again
in replace all you would have U self
right here yeah then in normal rules you
would also have self and instead of
doing this thing like this abomination
of passing rules well
further uh this
rules you would you could ALS you you
could easily do it like that nor yeah
nor rules oh and you don't even need
rules here because you have real type of
rules so you could do like that you can
use a full name look at that Bey that's
much better actually
yeah
findings um again can replace this thing
with some kind of constant or method or
yeah
um it seems to me that those things are
a bit magical you know yeah hold on okay
yeah no they definitely are I mean
there's so
many yeah absolutely um yeah yeah I need
to think about how I want to handle
matching the spec of the language with
uh with like good codee design cuz right
now it's sort of just me remembering how
things work you
know yeah yeah I I understand that to I
understand
it again really nice self guess that
would be like self replace
rules I maybe not your place
again that's cute what which
one ah this one oh yeah but I think we
can like circumvent
the the map and collect but yeah want to
think about that replace
repeated wait what so replace repeat
repeated is isn't it isn't it the same
thing oh no here we have a back ter wait
but it's
list wait yeah I remember there was
something weird here
uh I forget exactly different
yeah forget exactly why I did
that yeah anyway yeah oh God wait
scary
huh scary of it well it's kind of cool
because Mathematica if you do xal x +
one you yeah it it returns a terminated
it returns a valid Wolfram expression
but it's terminated evaluation of
recursion limit so they have all these
cool things like I could return I could
return you know failed Sim failed there
um okay and so the way they communicate
with the the user is almost always
through Expressions which I think is
kind of a unique way people of you know
things are
done here this function I don't actually
remember if I need it or not I remember
I was trying to get the evaluator to
evaluate in the right order and I needed
to uh well for example what happens is
if you do like set set
X1 the evaluation order if I try to do
set X2 this ends up going because you
evaluate the atoms you evaluate the you
know do a depth first
evaluation uh that you end up trying to
call set one to two and which is
obviously wrong so I was basically
trying to make sure that these certain
things that are part of the spec have
what are called attributes associated
with them so I say that the attributes
this pattern attributes of hold pattern
mean don't evaluate the arguments so I
do that for set and I I don't remember
if this was actually necessary or if I
made a mistake or something but that's
why that
exists and so basically that is really
weird because you define your times in
um and then you parse him right yeah and
then you parse him here and evaluate it
yeah or I evaluate them uh somewhere oh
no no I I put them manually into the uh
tables yeah I manually put them into the
table yeah
see yeah it's a it's weird yeah yeah
it's it's weird for
sure okay oh this one's cool okay so you
you do not to have you do not have
to provide the anonymous function here
yeah you can just
yeah function directly yeah
yeah oh look at that you actually did
sell
here well I copied that I copied that
from I stole that from Rusty lines okay
makes sense yeah yeah the first time I
see that yeah there's no way I knew it
what what that was about it's
fine oh that's for this file right
yeah B rer
nice what
okay again you you don't need to specify
stack here mutable and then
to pass in the mutable reference you can
just Define the evaluate on the on the
expression that's
it yeah yeah wa what is going on
here yeah so
would potentially look in like a
more this should probably
be should probably you could do it like
[Music]
that uh k x oh yeah huh that's weird
yeah no wait leave that in that's
cool huh yeah but instead of those
two that's
interesting but then can can you also do
like uh x uh well let's yeah uh x.
evaluate
list
context list or uh uh why wait what is
evaluate well wait a second argument of
evaluate is context so if we move our
expression to self it will be expression
obviously
and then a second we would need context
so second one would be context instead
and the last one would be
expression yeah so it would be in this
order not in
the yeah I guess I guess what is the
like how do you pick which goes before
the dot
though you know
itself is the thing you perform your
action with or
on but so why wouldn't it be the
expression and not the
stack but you evaluate the expression
not the stack
right yeah so wouldn't you have like
like imple here let me put it down here
just how does it work do you just pul
next expression from the stack and you
evaluate it then it should an no so
stack is actually not used at all at the
moment uh that's why there's an
underscore in the name um but it's
supposed to just
remember uh what heads you've hit so if
you're traversing this tree it just
remembers what the the first element of
each list
is okay I mean I always assume you would
use stack like
a context like some kind of Stack right
you would just Po in next expression
evalate and output or oh yeah it's not
really that yeah yeah I see what you
mean
um then you would definitely use use
expression as the as a self because
that's the that's the oh I'm sorry not
expression but Contex stack because it's
stack that performs the action if if
it's the exception does the jump right
like a expression transforms into other
expression then it's definitely should
be an expression that's that's what I
think I think it should be on expression
I think you would do imple xer toine uh
evaluate I think that we we kind of I me
that's what I did here yeah yeah oh um
right but this would
be but I mean this x not the empty stack
you have to wait wait wait wait wait you
have two expressions here yeah I have
two expression right the stack
isal so as you give an expression to the
program it creates a new stack that's
empty and then it evaluates the sorry
wait you're saying that there the the
expression that you pass in should be
empty and the one that should not be
empty like just to yeah so whenever when
you start a new evaluator like when I go
it's fine yeah yeah it's fine totally
fine like that's
reasonable again you you could replace
this thing with Tron I guess
um just just you could do like a
tracing
error like
that and then whatever you want it's
slightly more fancy because you get the
like where the error occurred uh you
can't add the back
Trace uh a lot of pens
St okay yeah you can attach your
context you could obviously run could be
in something maybe maybe on context like
you create a context in your main you
call your run function and your main
could be really fancy like uh can you
imagine that like a
adext new whatever yex
run really fancy something like that
that one I feel like is going too far
why can't run because run is like the
entry point to the
program no it's not main is because in
main you would set up your tracing your
login your file system maybe if you go a
bit further you could set up your multi
thread in maybe your ran you want to
like parallel stuff whatever
yeah and then you execute to run because
run does not run the program it executes
the context it does the math right
yeah again this kind of think you could
move somewhere else oh I have uh I have
this uh comment
here because I would crash a lot and I
would lose my stuff
so just because it would crash a lot I
wanted to save every time I wrote
something to the
line so you're supposed to do that
outside of the loop but um after you
quit the program
but you
know hey there's another way to do that
but
I understand
correctly that's what that's output a
program right yeah that saves that saves
all the commands that I put into the
program
okay
wait oh you can just use Trace in here
you could just trace it like a you could
use Trac in Trace right and you could
I'm not sure I'm not sure about the API
here but you could set up tracon to go
into file instead not your
console it totally makes sense one thing
that's nice about okay I guess that's
fine
yeah I mean you could like everything
like about info let's say goes into your
console but everything else including
info goes into your
file like Chason allows you to do that
yeah creating a file just for that I
mean that's essentially your log right
uh
yeah again lots of cells could be a bit
more cute I
guess yeah uh you don't need those
things here let
me oh
yeah like
um car fmt it will move it like I mean I
guess you
can it be like
that well yeah I had print statements
before I
for yeah it it happens when you remove
the semicolon here the same thing can
break oh let me
see okay
yeah again same here you you don't
return anything do you do you do you no
you
don't do like that I mean you canot do
it like that but you can add the coma
when it's gone so like
that yeah that's
nice yeah but again you can replace it
with a use an error even if you were to
use a print you would use e print
um but here I mean I would use tracing
again yeah
because
fancy
main main looks kind of fine I mean
yeah yeah don't need history if you use
Tron you just you would have to set up
Tron here more
laboratory now I misli
okay
that's just for testing that's not used
elsewhere oh if it's for testing you can
actually do this
thing then you'll be available only for
testing that's
cool and you can actually move into your
test you just you just don't Market with
test so it's
like yeah so this this whole block would
be yeah like
that
cool oh I'll be back in a second I gota
use the
restroom
for
all right sorry about that
back all right I would definitely move
them into different tests
yeah I had that originally but it seemed
like it was just like so much code like
the it felt like boiler plate but I
agree cuz it's it's super annoying that
when you have a bunch of different ones
it uh it doesn't tell you which one
failed really well it kind of does
yeah yeah I mean kind of does so it say
the line right and then figure out what
happened here yeah you just scroll up to
test oh you know if you if you prefer
this like a how's it called table table
testing whatever um you could actually
add
another uh element to a topple that
would like add a name right and then
where you create aerts asserts here yeah
I can print the last the third the third
thing you could provide a reason like it
should be like expected and then you
would have a reason like a next
element yeah well one thing that I
really need to add with testing is that
I need to
especially with match testing I need to
make sure that the rules like the maps
that are populated uh do the right thing
so I I'm I'm planning to rewrite at
least a good portion of
that um yeah makes sense yeah but up
until now it's pretty much just been
figuring out uh how to make the pattern
matcher work and it seems like I'm not
actually done with that
unfortunately
how long have you been writing Rus code
seems like a while for a year oh damn I
think feel like I've been writing for a
year and I'm still writing random
stuff I me I had several years of
experience and Sim languages I was using
C++ for two years
before and a b of java but not for
long are you uh do you do it
professionally
programming C++ yeah oh
nice what do you do well not
really inste CL it was Game Dev oh
really you're Game Dev
I used to
be that's
sick really sh a jump oh
yeah
yeah I would rather work for some kind
of Casino maybe porn website
whatever that's hilarious
man
no I'm not joking because salary is are
much better oh yeah yeah game da I hear
doesn't pay as well as uh yeah
yeah yeah I mean I had a friend of mine
that um he used to work in a big name
company with UB ends with
[Laughter]
soft yeah so he switch his jump to to
[__] Casino damn that's crazy tce
much yeah like gambling you know like on
longine gambling there's a not true that
there like a slots what I was this
called yeah yeah slots
yeah where are you from by the
way I live in Poland OH Poland that's
right
yeah
nice all right I I think I might need to
I think I think I might need to wind
down I've been uh streaming for five
hours I think I need to go get some food
uh yeah going Petit yeah I've been
checking out your comments at the bottom
oh
yeah uh those are just like notes you
know actually make
testing next
one it's kind of I mean making a making
an interpreter or interpreted language
is kind of an interesting problem
because there's so much to do right off
the bat that like
it's a little overwhelming and deciding
what to do first is kind of
tough yeah makes
sense wait what is that what is this I
oh it's just with the test
number oh yeah makes sense but the test
number is starts with zero but okay
yeah I meant you could just use a either
I guess
whatever next time I guess then all
right yeah thanks a lot dude uh you
should start streaming by the way I
totally watch you streaming making that
uh
WebCrawler uh no it's boring
um several years ago actually not
several I think quite a few years ago I
I used to stream csgo oh nice
and and uh
I kind of so I used to stream
with so we were streaming pretty much
all day like he was streaming for like
six hours I was streaming for around six
hours damn
um yeah it was kind of big honestly at
that time we had like a 40 50 viewers
like all the time oh that's crazy um it
was like I think it was like six years
ago six years yeah wow that's cool I
haven't
played we got that in like a week or two
damn it was insanely fast wow yeah yeah
know I mean I think I actually I don't
think go
ahead what were you saying yeah I was
saying that I think nowadays it's pretty
much not possible to get like a 10
viewers in in
that yeah I mean today I think I hit my
maximum number of of viewers cuz that
guy raided me and I got up to five but
uh
yeah yeah pretty
cool all right so I have lots of changes
I need to make I think I might start uh
over I think I might start
over because what I've been doing I I
don't know if you so I have the I'm
putting all the vods on YouTube and so
the past couple days I'm starting from a
blank rust project so that I do the same
thing a few times just to learn how
things are supposed to go because I feel
like if I you know the repetition helps
me learn it yeah um yo um I just noticed
you don't need to imper your uh
variance oh yeah I I think that was
probably just automatic I don't know why
that happened oh actually try deleting
that I feel like there an error happens
though yeah there will be an error but
it doesn't matter because what you can
do you can just use oh okay yeah oh oh
I'm yeah because that's an enum or right
yeah that makes
sense yeah all right because was kind of
weird to see Bor just yeah hey
what why do I need that I forget why I
need
those oh yeah I was trying make going on
I didn't know how to make this work
because if you do a plus b it doesn't
work so yeah if you could resolve that
figure out what's I'm supposed to
do wait
oh
okay I was like what the hell is this
all we need to yeah and then we can do
the same for
times oh is it times it's not Mo yeah
that should be
more uh left
one wait wait times
B
oh wait yeah
right multiply and there should be one
more yeah okay cool wait is is the star
times in
Rust yeah okay
yeah it's
multipli yeah it calls Mo okay
cool wait what
is oh yeah you match the top okay yeah
which is actually wrong because you know
make very are attic you you want to be
able to provide times with as many
arguments as it has and fold but for now
I'm not doing
that you can just do this then
here what wa wait what did you do hold
on oh that yeah yeah that's
fine yeah I mean lots of that
stuff
a lot of as eyes size cast for some
reason well part we looked at earlier
part is just sort of a odd one um
because part you can do I think I have
array indexing tests if you want to see
how it gets
used um yeah I mean I mean I can guess
but the issue is
that array index cannot be
negative yeah right you size it's it's
not high size
yeah I don't know why I needed to do
that I think it was because the
conversion from
int for some
reason
no do you even need it
anywhere maybe you can use the like a
square bracket oparation in your code I
have no idea and then you need to
transform it somehow into
us but instead of doing that you decided
to transform every U size into I
size yeah we do it well
in
yeah
pic how many panics you have let me
check oh
God yeah you can can just Define the uh
custom eror type or if you don't want to
do that you can uh check out
anyhow check out anyhow and this error
yeah yeah I remember I remember seeing
those when people talk about
them
anyhow yeah and this
error
oops those are those are fine for a
handling like
yeah
yeah it's pretty this one also has a
feature this one also has a
[Music]
feature kind of useful
hey anyway till next time yeah thanks a
lot dude I'm gonna I'm gonna get some
sleep and
stuff me too it's pretty late you yeah I
bet all right thanks a lot dude it's was
nice meeting you
man he see you
bye D what a guy man that's
sick that was a crazy
stream I'm definitely gonna have to
rewrite cast 3 um but man we got to get
to the bottom of this thing
dude
um okay wait let me commit these
things
stream
Chang push
that
okay connect that
okay so let me just switch branches
remember where it was
at
what the
hell oh yeah that's
[Music]
F okay
um where was I
so
new match
right so what was
failing close all
this oh
uh
all right so this case is
failing
seems like it's leaving early all right
I'm I'm I'm gonna go get some food this
is
crazy